Docs/partial prefetching (#94855)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/03-api-reference/03-file-conventions/02-route-segment-config/prefetch.mdx

    - app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config/instant
---

The `prefetch` route segment config controls how a segment is prefetched during client-side navigation. By default, the framework manages the strategy based on the app's [`partialPrefetching`](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/partialPrefetching) setting. To override per segment, set this export to one of the values below.

> When you do set this export, consider pairing it with [`instant`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config/instant) so validation can confirm that navigations to this segment actually produce an instant UI from the prefetched data. This is especially important for runtime prefetching.

Reviewer: This must be outdated, right? We dont reccomend this flag directly right now

## Relationship with the `<Link prefetch>` prop

A prefetch starts with a `<Link>` that expresses intent (should this destination be prefetched, and how eagerly), and ends at a segment that sets a cost ceiling (how much work is it OK to do ahead of time, for any link that points here).

A destination can't know which links target it, so the segment config caps what any `<Link prefetch={true}>` pulls:

- [`'allow-runtime'`](#allow-runtime): App Shell plus runtime data (cookies, headers, search params).
- [`'partial'`](#partial): App Shell only.
- [`'force-disabled'`](#force-disabled): skip segment data entirely.

`<Link prefetch={false}>` skips prefetching at the link level regardless of how the destination is configured.

> > **Good to know**: A prefetch may be served from a CDN cache, reuse a cached App Shell, or run a fresh server render. Wider prefetches lean toward fresh server work; the cost shows up as server CPU per page view.

Reviewer: r work; the cost shows up as server CPU per page 

maybe this can be improved! broken sentence

Always prefetch this segment statically, even if it has not been validated with `instant`. Use this when you know the segment produces a valid static shell but do not want to set up instant validation.

> > **Good to know**: `prefetch = 'force-static'` is distinct from [`dynamic = 'force-static'`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config/dynamic). The `dynamic` config controls how a segment renders at request time; the `prefetch` config controls how it's prefetched ahead of navigation. They're independent.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Good to know**: `prefetch = 'force-static'` is distinct from [`dynamic = 'force-static'`](/docs/app/guides/caching-without-cache-components#dynamic). The `dynamic` config controls how a segment renders at request time; the `prefetch` config controls how it's prefetched ahead of navigation. They're independent.
```
